# Data-Science-case-studies-assignments
Portfolio of data science projects completed by me as part of academic requirements of PGDDS, IIIT Bangalore

_Note: Data used in the projects is for demonstration purposes only._

## Instructions for Running Python Notebooks Locally
1. Install dependencies using requirements.txt.
2. Run notebooks as usual by using a jupyter notebook server, Vscode etc.

## Contents

- [Predicting Boston Housing Prices](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/boston_housing/boston_housing.ipynb): A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.

- [Supervised Learning: Finding Donors for CharityML](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/finding_donors/finding_donors.ipynb): Testing out several different supervised learning algorithms to build a model that accurately predicts whether an individual makes more than $50,000, to identify likely donors for a fictional non-profit organisation.


- [Unsupervised Learning: Creating Customer Segments](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/customer_segments/customer_segments.ipynb): Analyzing a dataset containing data on various customers' annual spending amounts (reported in monetary units) of diverse product categories for discovering internal structure, patterns and knowledge.


- [Reinforcement Learning: Training a Smartcab to Drive](https://github.com/sajal2692/Training-a-Smartcab-to-Drive): Creating an optimized Q-Learning driving agent that will navigate a Smartcab through its environment towards a goal.


- [Deep Learning: Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/digit_recognition-mnist-sequence.ipynb):  Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.

If you liked what you saw, want to have a chat with me about the portfolio, work opportunities, or collaboration, shoot an email at contact@sajalsharma.com.
